**NOTE**  The following is very much and much an **_if-and-only-if_** scenario, but please read through the entirety of this proposal before forming an opinion. 

For background, it was mentioned in a previous meeting that extensions might be the wrong vehicle to accomplish the "additional" functionality we have been looking to "inject" into the dashboard (specifically GitHub webhooks at the moment). Further, it seemed that there was certain functionality lacking (addressed later). When I was creating the README for the [Triggers](https://github.com/tektoncd/triggers) repository, I realized the full power of Triggers, namely:

> Using `tektoncd/triggers` in conjunction with `tektoncd/pipeline` enables you to easily create full-fledged CI/CD systems where the execution is defined **entirely** through Kubernetes resources.

The power is exactly that. The system is composed **entirely** of CRDs. There are no loose threads, there is no obfuscation and nothing is unknown. Instead, Triggers do ONLY what is specified in the CRD. All data transformations are clearly specified and `TriggerBindings`/`TriggerTemplates` also document what workloads (TaskRuns/PipelineRuns) they will be initiating.

Currently, the webhooks extension is utilizing Knative Eventing to handle the addressable bits for webhooks, and in this way, it does quite a bit. In much the same manner, `EventListeners` will specify an addressable endpoint. Again, this ties into the idea that Pipeline+Triggers enable **everything** to be defined as a CRD and the sytem is a full-fledged CI/CD system. Put another way, the CRD act as the engine where events are the gas that initiate actual work. Following this thinking, handling events is the only remaining piece of the puzzle. I contend, the best solution, is no solution.

With the benefit of having previously worked on Microclimate, it seems that extensions in their current form (and likely going forward as well) attempt to recreate this functionality for handling events/webhooks. I argue, that **_recreate_** is the appropriate wording since this functionality already exists elsewhere e.g., GitHub, GitLab, DockerHub, etc. Should someone be familiar with these platforms (why they seek to create webhooks in the first place), there are views that enable them to do so already. We are very much porting the work of others and reskinning it. In addition, if there is a bug, we are liable to fix it. Worse yet, if full functionality is not ported (not enabling webhooks to all possible events as with GitHub/GitLab), we have actually net negative functionality to doing nothing at all. Since we are proposing things be done with extensions, we are in a way revoking the idea that it should be done using the native mechanisms. After all, perhaps we are mangling the data to accept it in the format we expect, otherwise why provide the extension at all? With the current Knative Eventing method, we actually DO limit people to using the extension (unless the Knative CRD was set up ahead of time, analogous to `EventListener`). This is contrasted with the `Triggers` approach of what you have done is what you see is what you get. This is not a matter of laziness, but a realization that an extensions approach is forever incomplete because it doesn't have support for X, because it introduces more pieces that can potentially fail, which add weight to the dashboard, etc. The main draw of the extensions is that gives the dashboard the perception of being an "all-in-one" solution, but _fundamentally_, it will never include everything. Without extensions, having the same "look and feel" _is_ satisfied because from the dashboard perspective, all of its components look and feel the same. It is the responsibility of someone that wants to use tool Y to leverage that tool properly because if we cannot make that assumption, all others are built illogically. [CodeWind](https://projects.eclipse.org/proposals/eclipse-codewind) takes this same perspective and empowers people to use the tools they are familiar with. The potential empowerment here is in _truly_ consolidating on the codebase provided by the tool in question, to the vendor.

Without extensions, the dashboard as it is today would NOT be delivering nearly as much functionality. Yet, it already seems there is some discussion on what should be provided to the "core" dashboard and what the role of extensions are. Assuming we want the best product for our clients, that Triggers does everything it is supposed to do, and the reality that we are already contributing to the project, wouldn't it make sense to put our all into this approach? The reality is, at some point we **will** dramatically refactor the codebase to accomodate Triggers since it enables us to support literally ANY workflow and creates a much more compelling story. There is still plenty of work to be done in `tektoncd/triggers` as well as `tektoncd/dashboard` and forgoing the extension work frees us up to do work that actually creates business value. This will also gives us time to think over some of the questions we still haven't answered. To this effect, currently, what functionality do we seek in the current dashboard? Do we want a service account panel? A cluster role panel? Whatever it may be, it can and should live in the "core" dashboard. Looking at solely the dashboard as the complete solution for private and public will help channel discussion into exactly what we are looking for and what should be added if anything. We could very realistically "complete" the dashboard by recognizing the tools around us and leveraging them just as we have done recently by proxying to the Kube API. The Trigger project was conceived to be pluggable because events are the plugins. If any work needs to be done, it should be in `tekton/pipeline` or `tekton/triggers` and rightfully so. The dashboard should not be providing new functionality, but simply act as a gateway.

In goes without saying that removing extensions would remove a lot of hard work done by the team. In fact, my recent PR (that I was really proud of) enabled dynamic extensions. Regardless, I still believe that long term (debatably even within a months time) this would be the right move. A lot of people have a stake in what has been done and what is to be delivered and this is not a simple pivot. Ultimately, this all presides over a few assumptions:
- That Triggers is delivered as specified
- We discard the traditional notion of a "all-in-one" solution and see _this_ dashboard as the idealized solition
- We adjust our priorities to address this pivot

Regarding the first point, I don't believe anyone has ever questioned the "deliverability" of the Triggers project. If we didn't think it could be done, we wouldn't have invested time into it. Moreover, we contributed much to the design/architecture behind it so we should be proud to stand by it and believe in it. These other two points are very much in the hands of the team to decide.

